Color Psychology

Here are emotions attached to some of the colors:

Red: Passionate, energetic, angry
Orange: Optimistic, playful, fun
Yellow: Welcoming, intellectual, impatient
Green: Prosperous, balanced, growing
Blue: Peaceful, loyal, cold
Purple: Imaginative, royal, spiritual
Gray: Unemotional, compromising
White: Innocent, pure
Black: Luxurious, powerful

Best Practices

Now that we’ve talked through how to choose the proper colors for your designs, there are some best practices to consider as well.

Use neon colors sparingly. While the use of neon colors can feel hip, they are often hard on a user’s eyes.

Avoid vibrating colors. Vibrating colors result from pairing two colors with high saturation together that may be complementary to one another. It creates a glowing or moving effect, which also can be hard on one’s eyes.

Use backdrops to separate vibrating colors. Reduce the space where the contrasting colors are directly next to each other, but the overall effect is still too intense for most websites.

Avoid color combinations with insufficient contrast, including:

Bright colors on top of bright colors
Light colors on top of light colors
Dark colors on top of dark colors
Even if there's enough contrast in these pairings for the different colors to be legible, they likely won't create enough contrast to attract the user's attention.

Remember that most users skim websites! They are not reading every word and checking every menu—you need to guide the user to the most important content with good color choices.

Remember, the keys to choosing the right colors for your projects are:

Using the color wheel as a basis for selecting colors
Using a color scheme approach that promotes harmony
Using colors that fit the context and emotion you are trying to display to users
Using contrast to enhance the legibility of elements on the page
Using shades and tints of a color to create flexibility
Avoiding combinations that can cause issues for users